>> Will Sentance: Here we go.
When the function inner
is defined it gets a bond to
surrounding local memory.
You got that bit in which
it's being defined.
We return out the function known as inner.
The surrounding live data is returned
too attach the back of the function
definition itself, which we then give
a new global label, returnNextElement.
When we call returnNextElement and
don't find array or i and
it's local immediate execution context,
we look into the function
definition's backpack of live data.
The backpack has some official names.
Okay, let's first say,
how is this bond to the backpack
actually stored on the function?
It's stored in a hidden property, we can
actually see it in the Chrome dev tools.
We can't access it meaningfully,
[[scope]].
If you were to console.log
return next element,
press a little down arrow,
you'd see [[scopes]].
And that will have stored in it, so
it's on this hidden property scope,
and that would have stored
in it all this data, okay?
So with that in mind,
by the way, in general,
a language who's rules, or
it's rule about what data is
available to you is about
where the function is born,
where it was defined,
is known as a lexically-scoped language.
That means a language that says,
where you defined me is what determines,
the positioning of my definition inside
another function, is what determines
what data I have available to me when
I'm eventually run, eventually called.
Wherever you end up calling me.
Because I attached the data from
around me when I was born, to me.
That's the first place I look, besides
the function execution context itself.
That is known as a lexically scoped
language, as opposed to a dynamically.
It's called a statically scoped language,
lexically or statically.
Statically or lexically-scoped language.
You could very easily imagine a language
where the next place I'd look is global.
Not JavaScript.
Is a statically or
lexically-scoped language.
So we can call this backpack of data,
wanna be really fancy?
We can call it a persistent lexical scope.
This is our lexical scope bond,
or reference,
persistent lexical scope reference data.
Very catchy.
Persistent lexical scope reference data.
It's very literal.
Go and say that in your senior
year engineering interviews,
they'll be very happy with you.
>> [LAUGH]
>> Will Sentance: You may also remember
that the memory is called
the variable environment.
That means that the variables
is available to you around.
So you can call it also the variable
environment has been enclosed,
closed over.
And returned out of the function.
So, you might call it
the Closed Over Variable Environment,
the COVE.
>> Will Sentance: Also not catchy.
People intuitively call it the backpack.
People also unfortunately
I think unintuitively but
colloquially typically call it,
that's the best name.
Typically call it the closure.
You'll hear engineers say put
those values in the closure.
Why I don't love that name is because
firstly, it doesn't make sense.
But secondly, we call the whole concept
closure, the idea of functions persisting
their lexical scope references, their
surrounding data when they were born.
We call the whole concept closure,
and we call the backpack the closure.
So I think that's just a bit
too much under one label.
And certainly a label doesn't
mean that much to me anyway.
So I like the name backpack but
people tend to call this
backpack of data the closure.
It is to say that our functions
get to have memories.
Not their local memory that
gets deleted each time but
a persistent cache of data attached
to their very down definition.
Meaning we can have
a function that when called,
doesn't find data inside itself and looks
in its persistent cache attached to it.
All bundled up on a single function.
It's a pretty beautiful design.
All right, returnNextElement,
that function has everything we need,
by the way, the only way you can get
a backpack in a meaningful way is to
return the function
from where it was born.
Is to return the function and
bring with it the data,
that's how you get that persistent data.
So returnNextElement has everything
we need all bundled up in it.
It has the underlying array in
the backpack, it has the position
we're currently in, in our flow of
elements coming out to us in the backpack.
And the ability when it's run when
the function actually itself has run
to return out that next element.
This relies completely on the special
property of functions in Java that also
were born inside other functions and
returned, they get a backpack of
persistent data that they have
access to when they're called.
What is the posh name for
returnNextElement?
Who knows the posh name for
>> Will Sentance: It's known as
an iterator.
Any function that when called gives me out
the next element from my flow of data.
My collection of data
gives me the next element.
And when I run it I switch on the flow and
get the returning next element,
I run the function again, I switch
on the flow, get the fnext element.
That is known as an iterator function.
It gives me one by one,
every time it's called my next
element from my underlying collection.
I refer the name returnNextElement,
we call these iterators.
All right, so iterators I'm gonna
go to pairing in a second and
then we're gonna come back to discover.
Here, what our flow of data is, is preset.
We can't go back and change it.
It was sort of preset from at moment we
created the returnNextElement function,
which was born inside create function.
We can't go back and change it.
I mean we could design returnNextElement
in some way to be able to mutate it.
But, basically we can't go back and
change it.
We're gonna discover in our next session,
there's now a new way of dynamically
controlling the values that come out of
that flow, known as generator functions.
But first, iterators turn our data,
our collections of numbers,
or list, or whatever, into streams,
into flows of actual values that
we can access one after another.
No longer are we getting
a static list of elements and
we go grab element at zero,
go grab element at one.
Now we run a function and it gives us
the next element, one by one by one.
Now we have functions that
hold our underlying array,
the position we're currently in, and
return out the next item in the streams
of elements from our array when it's run.
This [INAUDIBLE] has our for
loops, known as for of loops,
that show us the element
itself in the body of a loop.
No accessing some from
some array the position,
and you'll see these in the challenges,
but rather instead
actually give us out into the body
of our for loop the actual element.
Cuz behind the scenes it's
running returnNextElement.
And returning that individual element and
giving it the label, I don't know,
whatever you want, element, next element,
whatever you want to call it.
And more deeply it allows us to rethink
our collections, our static lists of data,
our arrays as flows of elements cuz most
of the time we store a list of data,
we don't really care about it so
much as a static thing.
We want to be able to get
the elements one by one.
That's actually what we want to
do with it most of the time.
We're not just sort of
just leaving it there,
we want to get the elements
out one by one.
And maybe conflate them, join them
together, do something with them.
It allows us to rethink arrays
as flows of elements themselves.
Which we can interact with by calling
a function that switches that flow on to
give us out our next element.
We have truly separated, decoupled, the
process of accessing each of our elements,
from what we end up wanting to
do to our individual elements.